For almost 40 years, Moses enjoyed a life of comfort and privilege as the adopted son of Pharaoh's daughter.
Among the advantages, material prosperity, and advanced education, how might those advantages
have affected Moses' outlook?
We gained some insight from an incident that took place when Moses was 80 years of age.
It's recorded in Exodus chapter 5.
There in a conversation with the Pharaoh, the Pharaoh is reported to have said to Moses,
who is Jehovah that I should obey his voice?
I do not know Jehovah at all.
No truer words have ever been spoken.
That Pharaoh did not know Jehovah, and as a result had no faith in him.
He was faithless.
His hearty words, dismissive of Jehovah,
no doubt reflected the Egyptian belief that the Pharaoh was himself a God.
Was Moses' outlook affected in a negative way by that Egyptian culture?
No.
We see a refreshing contrast.
Moses was a humble man, a man of faith,
who at the age of 40 made a decision that reflected the depth of that faith
and that changed his life forever.
Why should you and I be interested in Moses' example of faith?
Because like Moses, we face situations that require choices, decisions that reflect the quality of our faith.
For example, note how an elder faces a test of his faith in the following dramatization.
Danny is going to look after the business while we're away.
I only scheduled a few small jobs.
I'm sure he can handle it.
It's our sign convention, and I planned as best I could for us to go together.
But some things, you just can't see coming.
Hello?
Danny was in a panic.
He got trouble calls from my two biggest accounts.
It was bad.
I can't lose their business.
For just a few minutes, let's consider what the scriptures have to say about Moses' faith
and consider four ways that we can imitate him.
Turn please to Hebrews chapter 11.
And we're going to begin reading in verse 24.
Hebrews 11, 24.
By faith, Moses, when grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
choosing to be mistreated with the people of God, rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin.
So the first thing that Moses did, he rejected the proud selfish thinking of that Egyptian world.
He chose to be mistreated with the Israelites, who were slaves, rather than to align himself with a culture that dismissed Jehovah.
What prompted that decision?
The opening words of verse 24 tell us Moses was a man of faith.
And his faith shaped his decisions, not his culture, not community pressure, his faith.
And that's our second point.
Now let's continue reading in verse 26.
Because he considered the reproach of the Christ to be riches greater than the treasures of Egypt.
For he looked intently toward the payment of the reward.
Moses received an assignment, a commission from Jehovah.
And he viewed that commission as more valuable than anything that Egypt had to offer.
He turned his back on the comforts of Egypt and aligned himself with Jehovah and the outworking of Jehovah's purpose.
Our third point?
He had clear spiritual vision.
He looked intently toward the payment of the reward.
Moses could see outside the Egypt box, and he could see the fulfillment of Jehovah's wonderful promises to Abraham and Abraham's descendants.
The spiritual vision is committed on further in verse 27.
By faith, he left Egypt, but not fearing the anger of the king.
For he continued steadfast as seahine, the one who was invisible.
Yes, Moses could see the Pharaoh, but with his clear spiritual vision, he could see Jehovah.
Moses had an unbreakable friendship with Jehovah.
So can you.
The quality of any friendship can be measured by the quality of communication that characterizes it.
Regular heartfelt prayer and meaningful study of the Bible constitute two-way communication between an individual and Jehovah.
As we get to know Jehovah better and better, as our faith strengthens and deepens.
Then our decisions reflect that faith.
And in our words and actions, we give evidence of that faith.
And that brings us to the fourth point.
In the opening words of verse 27, by faith, Moses left Egypt.
His faith was of such quality that it evidenced in his words and his actions.
True, Moses was a man of action.
He left Egypt.
But he was also a man who expressed his convictions.
When Moses and the Israelites stood on the shore of the Red Sea, with Pharaoh and his armies behind them,
and the Red Sea in front of them, and seemingly nowhere to go, how did Moses strengthen the people?
Do not be afraid.
Stand still and see the salvation of Jehovah.
Those words must have strengthened the Israelites.
In a similar way, we can strengthen those around us, whether in the preaching work in our dealings with our family or with others,
when our faith is voiced and evidenced in the things that we say and do.
We're a blessing to those around us.
Of course, it's important that we stay humble, as Moses did, ever receptive to Jehovah's direction and counsel
that he provides through his word and his organization.
Now, how about that elder who we met earlier?
Let's look in and see how he imitates Moses in making a decision.
Okay, just find the parts, and I'll call you back. This will take our weekend.
You want us to go? Will you get the program later?
Yeah, and I'll have to text John that I can't be an attendant.
But what will I miss that I can't get later?
Hey, welcome, author.
In Hebrew's 11 verse 26 it says,
Moses considered the reproach of the Christ to be riches greater than the treasures of Egypt.
For he looked intently toward the payment of the reward.
Of what value is being a prince of Egypt compared with me?
Honey, what do you think?
Nanny? Yeah, here's what I want you to do for now.
And we'll pick up the pieces when I get back.
Did you notice how the elder made a decision based on his faith?
With his eyes of faith, he could see the blessings that he and his family would enjoy.
If they attended the convention together and he made a decision as a spiritual man.
In a similar way, if we imitate Moses rejecting the proud selfish thinking of the world
and allowing our decisions to be shaped by our faith, not by culture or community pressure.
If we maintain clear spiritual vision and if our faith is evidenced in our words and actions,
then we can be confident of Jehovah's support and his hand of salvation in our behalf just as he did for Moses.
Brother Robert Soranco, a helper to the writing committee, will consider the final talk of this symposium.
imitate the faithful, not the faithless.
Jesus disciples, not the Pharisees.